## Credit Card Fraud Detection Model 

In this project, I use two popular classification models to recognize fraudulent credit card transactions. These models are: Decision Tree and Support Vector Machine. The dataset used are a real dataset that contains information about transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders. The models in this project are not only built with Scikit-Learn Python interface, but also the Python API offered by the Snap Machine Learning (Snap ML) library. Snap ML is a high-performance IBM library for ML modeling. It provides highly-efficient CPU/GPU implementations of linear models and tree-based models. We will use both library interface to build models, evaluate, and compare their performance.

The problem is modeled as a binary classification problem. A transaction belongs to the positive class (1) if it is a fraud, otherwise it belongs to the negative class (0). The majority of the transactions in the datasets are legitimate and only a small fraction are non-legitimate (the positive class - the frauds - accounts for 0.172% of all transactions). Thus, the dataset is highly unbalanced. Each row in the dataset represents a credit card transaction. Each row has 31 variables. One variable (the last variable in the table above) is called Class and represents the target variable. Note: For confidentiality reasons, the original names of most features are anonymized V1, V2 .. V28. The values of these features are the result of a PCA transformation and are numerical. The feature 'Class' is the target variable and it takes two values: 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise. For more information about the dataset please visit this [webpage](https://www.kaggle.com/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud).

In a real world case, a financial institution may have access to a much larger dataset of transactions. To simulate such a case, in this project I inflate the original data 10 times. This is also to make it easier to compare Scikit-Learn and Snap ML performances.
